Hi there. In this video, we're gonna talk
about a couple of commands that are useful
if you're doing a lot of moving between
directories and you want to go back to
a directory you were recently in. So the
commands are actually called push d and pop
d. And by the names, should recognize that
they're basically stack based commands. And here's how
you use them. You say push d to
a particular directory. So let's say I wanted
to go for some reason back to my
home directory. Right. I would type the tilde
command, push d. And it would what it
would do is it would actually move me
to my command or to my home directory,
but it would save on this stack the
directory that I just came from. So basically,
it would save the assigned zero directory and
say, you ever wanna get back to that,
I'm keeping track of it. So in that
case we can actually cd to other places
too, cs one zero seven, cd old, whatever
and if we type pop d it pops
the last one off the stack which happened
to be assigned zero and it takes us
back to assigned zero. So if you're in
a particular directory and you want to move
to another directory to do some work, but
you want to come back to this one
eventually, just instead of doing c d, type
push d to push the directory and go
there. And of course to stack so you
can push as many as you want on
there. Push d to the home directory and
then push d to cs 107 old etc.
And then pop d will take us and
then let's actually change whatever reason to CS107.
Popd will take us back to assignment zero
and popd again will take us back to
sorry, popd originally took us back to the
home directory and then pop d again will
take us back to the assignment zero directory.
And that's the two commands. Now another one
that I like to use all the time
is related command and if I type c
d tilde to go back to my home
directory and then I wanna go just back
to the last directory, I can type c
d minus and that will go, hey, go
back to the directory you were just in.
So I use that one fairly regularly as
well. And that's push d and pop d
and also c d minus. Thanks.